Improving gateway config pages for 5.8 (#6049)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-classic.md

  - /tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/api-definition-objects
---

## Introduction to Tyk Classic

Tyk's legacy API definition is now called Tyk Classic and is used for GraphQL, XML/SOAP and TCP services.

From Tyk 5.8 we recommend that any REST APIs are migrated to the newer [Tyk OAS API]({{< ref "api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas" >}}) style, in order that they can benefit from simpler configuration and future enhancements.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

For versions of Tyk prior to 5.8 not all Gateway features can be configured using the Tyk OAS API definition, for edge cases you might need to use Tyk Classic for REST APIs, though we recommend updating to Tyk 5.8 and adopting Tyk OAS.
{{< /note >}}

The Tyk Classic API definition has a flat structure that does not use the `omitempty` style, requiring all fields to be present even if set to null, resulting in a larger object than that for an equivalent Tyk OAS API definition.

> Note that there are some specific differences between Tyk Classic and Tyk OAS APIs, in particular with respect to [default authentication method](#configuring-authentication-for-tyk-classic-apis) and [API versioning](#tyk-classic-api-versioning).

Author: ```suggestion
In the rest of this document we will summarise the different fields of the Tyk Classic API definition that are used to configure Tyk Gateway to handle traffic to your service.

There are some specific differences between Tyk Classic and Tyk OAS APIs, in particular with respect to the [default authentication method](#configuring-authentication-for-tyk-classic-apis) and [API versioning](#tyk-classic-api-versioning). The notes in this page apply only to Tyk Classic APIs and supercede the notes elsewhere which refer to the use of Tyk OAS APIs.

```

> ## Tyk Classic API versioning

Author: I've added some explanatory text, please take a look. 🙏

> ## Tyk Classic API versioning

Author: I think that this will actually grow organically as we update the rest of the docs to be Tyk OAS first - where there is existing documentation of (Tyk Classic) fields elsewhere in the docs, we can transfer that to here as we perform the Tyk OAS update.
